Add information on recovery and safe mode (#31427)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/troubleshooting_general.markdown

---
title: "General troubleshooting"
description: "General troubleshooting information"
---

This page provides some information about more generic troubleshooting topics.

## Home Assistant went into recovery mode

### Symptom: Home Assistant is in recovery mode

On top of the page you see a red banner. On the **Overview** page, you see a **Recovery mode** notification.

> ![image](/images/docs/troubleshooting/recovery_mode_active.png)

Reviewer: It looks like there's a frontend problem with retrieving the logs in the example image. Is that intended? It's a bit confusing, I think.

### Description

When Home Assistant is in recovery mode, there was an issue with the configuration.

> Recovery mode loads a few minimal integrations and parts of the configuration that was used the last time when it did start. You can still see the user interface, the settings, and add-ons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recovery mode loads a minimum set of integrations to allow troubleshooting the configuration. Recovery mode will use the parts of the configuration that was used the last time Home Assistant started successfully. You can still see the user interface, the settings, and add-ons.
```

### Resolution

You need to identify the issue in the configuration files and fix it there. The issue could be caused by something as simple as an invalid YAML file.

- If you are still logged in, you can [edit your configuration](/docs/configuration/#editing-configurationyaml).

>   - In the Home Assistant user interface, open the add-on you usually use and edit the configuration file.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this page is only intended for users running an installation that supports add-ons. Editing the configuration file in other installation types isn't done via an add-on.

- Restart Home Assistant.

>   - If needed, you can install an add-on such as VS code to edit the configuration file.

Reviewer: Maybe start with this instruction, to install an add-on if needed?
